# WHAT IS SSH-AGENT?

Recall that in asymmetric cryptography possession of the private key is proof of identity. That means if anyone were ever to obtain your private key they could digitally impersonate you. To prevent the private key file from being a single point of failure and high value target it's not uncommon for private key files to be protected with a pass phrase. This protects your private key in the event that it is ever stolen or compromised and is a form of two factor authentication: the first factor being something you have (the private key file) and the second factor being something you know (the pass phrase).

The benefits of protecting your private key with a pass phrase are clear, but in everyday usage this can be a large inconvenience. For the pass phrase to be effective it must be significantly long and complex, which makes typing it every time you push code or access a machine a constant source of frustration. We can keep our private key secure and our daily routines unencumbered by using SSH Agent.

SSH Agent is a program that keeps track of a user's various private keys and interfaces with SSH to provide them when asked for (vs just reading them directly from the file system) if a key is protected with a pass phrase SSH Agent is capable of prompting the user for it. Keys can be added to SSH Agent with the command `ssh-add -K /path/to/key`

At first pass it may seem that SSH agent isn't doing much of anything in the way of simplifying regular private key use, however the benefit of SSH Agent is its ability to save state across a user's entire session. In practice that means SSH Agent can be started when a user initially logs into a machine and remain running the background, effectively allowing a user to unlock their keys one time and continue using them without be prompted for a password until they log off or restart the machine. Further, this state can be *forwarded* to machines the user connects to using SSH's `-T` option. This allows users to avoid copying their private keys on machines they regularly SSH onto, making things like version control access from remote servers easier. Further, SSH Agent removes the need to use SSH's `-i` option as it will automatically loop through all of your private keys until it's able to establish a successful connection or it runs out of keys. Configuring SSH Agent to run on startup is different across platforms so Google for the best way to do this depending on your development machine's architecture.